Abbreviate - Verb

shorten, reduce, condense

She chose to ABBREVIATE her name from Samantha to Sam.;Abridge - Verb

compress, reduce, decrease

It is illegal to ABRIDGE the rights of citizens.;Abrupt - Adj.

brief, blunt, rude

She caught her daughter's arm, bringing her to an ABRUPT halt.;Absolute - Adj.

complete, full, entire

He only loosened his collar out of ABSOLUTE necessity.;Abundant - Adj.

ample, plenty, enough

They had ABUNDANT evidence to convict the criminal.;Accentuate - Verb

emphasize, highlight, focus on

She likes to wear clothes that ACCENTUATE her athletic build.;Adamant - Adj.

determined, unyielding, firm

The doctors were ADAMANT about the correct treatment plan.;Adept - Adj.

capable, proficient, skilled

After much practice, Darin became quite ADEPT at woodworking.;Adorn - Verb

embellish, enhance, garnish

Not much has been done to ADORN the new house; the walls are still bare.;Adversary - Noun

enemy, attacker, rival

The congresswoman was a determined ADVERSARY of the new law.;Affluent - Adj.

rich, prosperous, well-off

AFFLUENT individuals have a societal responsibility to be generous.;Affront - Verb

insult, criticize, offend

He regarded her impolite behavior as a personal AFFRONT.;Agenda - Noun

calendar, schedule, plan

So what's on your family's AGENDA for the day?;Aghast - Adj.

very surprised, appalled, shocked

The whole nation listened, AGHAST, to the dictator's manifesto.;Agile - Adj.

athletic, energetic, lively

The goats were AGILE and easily scaled the steep mountain.;Ailment - Noun

illness, disease, sickness

I've been to the doctor five times this month, but he can't find the cause of my AILMENT.;Alleviate - Verb

relieve, lessen, ease

She took painkillers to ALLEVIATE her terrible headache.;Aloof - Adj.

standoffish, detached, haughty

They often maintained an ALOOF manner at social events.;Ambiguous - Adj.

unclear, vague, obscure

The politician gave an AMBIGUOUS answer to the reporter's questions.;Ambivalence - Noun

doubt, hesitation, uncertainty

She felt AMBIVALENCE towards the two available lunch options.;Amiable - Adj.

friendly, pleasant, agreeable

Tory had an AMIABLE personality, always ready with a kind word and a smile.;Ample - Adj.

abundant, plentiful, sufficient

I've left AMPLE stores of food and water for you.;Animosity - Noun

extreme hatred, dislike, hostility

If there is ANIMOSITY between rival supporters, they will be asked to leave.;Anomalous - Adj.

Unusual, atypical, unnatural

She found herself in an ANOMALOUS situation.;Anonymous - Adj.

nameless, unknown, unidentified

"There's always an ANONYMOUS tip," Betsy said.;Antagonist - Noun

enemy, opponent, competitor

It is difficult to write an interesting story without an ANTAGONIST or conflict.;Appease - Verb

satisfy, pacify, calm

He came to help them, to APPEASE his guilt once and for al.;Arduous - Adj.

difficult, hard to endure, exhausting

We had an ARDUOUS climb up the mountain.;Arid - Adj.

dry, parched, moistureless

In the desert, ARID conditions prevail.;Aspire - Verb

aim, hope, strive

What do you ASPIRE to achieve in the coming year?;Barren - Adj.

desolate, empty, unproductive

The site of the town is a BARREN, rocky mountain valley.;Bias - Noun

favoritism, partiality, preference

Her natural BIAS was to respect things as they were.;Bizarre - Adj.

strange, wild, unusual

Brian broke the BIZARRE set of rules on the first day.;Blatant - Adj.

shameless, conspicuous, overt

She lowered her head in BLATANT dejection.;Bliss - Noun

gladness, joy, euphoria

The whale watching trip was sheer BLISS!;Boast - Verb

brag, self-congratulate, flaunt

He tended to BOAST about the many cars and boats he owned.;Boisterous - Adj.

noisy, unruly, rowdy

The BOISTEROUS student disrupted class every day.;Boycott - Verb

avoid, ban, exclude

Our plan is to BOYCOTT the circus.;Calamity - Noun

disaster, tragedy, mishap

The city suffered a severe CALAMITY: a large earthquake.;Callous - Adj.

insensitive, apathetic, heartless

Stealing the coats was a CALLOUS act!;Camouflage - Noun

disguise, mask, coverup

The chameleon's CAMOUFLAGE allowed it to hide from predators.;Candid - Adj.

honest, blunt, outspoken

The owner was CANDID about the things that went wrong as well as the successes.;Cater - Verb

help, provide, supply

The ceramicist has to CATER to the taste of the buying public.;Certify - Verb

approve, authorize, authenticate

The newly-discovered inscriptions CERTIFY the existence of the ancient kingdom.;Chronic - Adj.

persistent, lingering, constant

In spite of the lead singer's CHRONIC unpopularity, the band's catchy music spread across the country.;Chronology - Noun

timeline, itinerary, program

Due to missing records, the CHRONOLOGY of the empress's reign is not entirely certain.;Cliché - Noun

overused phrase, platitude, common saying

"Time heals all wounds" is a CLICHE that people don't usually want to hear after a loss.;Clinch - Verb

secure a goal, decide, confirm

The baseball team CLINCHED their win with one last home run.;Cohesive - Adj.

united, connected, close-knit

I always begin each essay with an outline, in order to be sure that my argument sounds COHESIVE.;Collaborate - Verb

work together, cooperate, participate

Teams of scientists in different countries can COLLABORATE virtually.;Colossal - Adj.

very large, enormous, gigantic

By a COLOSSAL eruption, of which no historical record remains, the upper half of the cone was blown away.;Coma - Noun

deep unconsciousness, stupor, deep sleep

He woke up suddenly, after having been in a COMA for fifteen years.;Compassionate - Adj.

benevolent, charitable, sympathetic

Mother Theresa was known for being COMPASSIONATE to those in need.;Concise - Adj.

to the point, succinct, brief

His arguments were CONCISE, simple, and clear.;Concur - Verb

agree, approve, assent

"Do you CONCUR with my three conditions?" the pirate asked in a husky voice.;Condescending - Adj.

snobby, arrogant, disdainful

He read the letter in the same CONDESCENDING tone with which it was written.;Contrite - Adj.

regretful, apologetic, repentant

After stealing the last piece of cake, Marge felt CONTRITE and confessed to her mother.;Controversial - Adj.

disputed, questionable, at issue

The philosopher was reclusive and held many CONTROVERSIAL ideas.;Convoluted - Adj.

complicated, intricate, confusing

She couldn't follow her friend's train of thought: it was too complicated and CONVOLUTED.;Copious - Adj.

abundant, extensive, ample

She held up her pad of COPIOUS notes.;Corrosive - Adj.

abrasive, consuming, destructive

If taken internally, the salt can be a CORROSIVE poison.;Cower - Verb

hide, crouch, cringe

Even though he was terrified of the bigger dog, the little puppy wouldn't COWER in front of him.;Crucial - Adj.

important, necessary, essential

At last, the scientist made a CRUCIAL discovery.;Cryptic - Adj.

secret, obscure, ambiguous

Two days later, a CRYPTIC message was posted on his regular secure web site.;Culpable - Adj.

guilty, at fault, blamable

Much as we believe he's CULPABLE, we don't have any hard evidence.;Custom - Noun

ritual, policy, routine

It is a CUSTOM to shake hands in many Western cultures.;Dearth - Noun

absence, inadequacy, lack

There was a DEARTH of talent in the incoming class of artists.;Debilitate - Verb

disable, cripple, harm

The self-defense class taught how to DEBILITATE an attacker in any dangerous situation.;Decent - Adj.

respectable, appropriate, proper

I'm going to get an education and a DECENT job.;Decor - Noun

furnishings, ornamentation, decoration

Miriam seemed as impressed by the artwork and DECOR as Yan had been.;Deduction - Noun

conclusion, answer, inference

She made a correct DEDUCTION that her mother had bought more ice cream at the grocery store.;Deficient - Adj.

imperfect, inadequate, faulty

Fortunately, Frederick had never been DEFICIENT in courage.;Deliberate - Adj.

intentional, purposeful, planned

He approached with caution, his movements DELIBERATE and his voice steady and low.;Depiction - Noun

drawing, illustration, representation

Her latest painting-- another seaside DEPICTION of Fisherman's Wharf-- leaned against one wall, ready to be delivered to Isabella's shop.;Desist - Verb

stop, refrain from, cease

"Lise, I beg you to DESIST," said Andrew still more emphatically.;Despondent - Adj.

depressed, dejected, morose

The children were DESPONDENT when they realized it was too rainy to play outside.;Destitute - Adj.

poor, impoverished, bankrupt

After gambling all of his money on race horses, Kym was left DESTITUTE.;Detain - Verb

arrest, apprehend, hinder

The escaped criminal was DETAINED at the border.;Detest - Verb

hate, despise, loathe

You know how everyone at the school DETESTS it.;Detrimental - Adj.

damaging, destructive, harmful

The new law will have DETRIMENTAL influences on certain people.;Devour - Verb

swallow, consume, eat

Most earthworms live in the soil, which they DEVOUR as they burrow through it.;Dialogue - Noun

talk, communication, conversation

The play's characters were well-drawn, and the DIALOGUE was full of comic strength.;Didactic - Adj.

educational, preachy, instructive

James was a very DIDACTIC person; he really loved teaching.;Diminish - Verb

lessen, decline, decrease

Even as she grew quite elderly, her quick wit did not DIMINISH.;Discard - Verb

cancel, abandon, get rid of

The boy accidentally DISCARDED an important document while taking out the trash.;Disdain - Noun

hate, indifference, scorn

The cat viewed the cheap supermarket cat food with DISDAIN and stalked away.;Disparate - Adj.

contrasting, different, inconsistent

The group of friends was quite DISPARATE, with a variety of backgrounds and interests.;Dispose - Verb

place, order, deal with

He always DISPOSES of the newspapers after reading them.;Distort - Verb

misrepresent, alter, warp

Reflections can DISTORT in moving water.;Divisive - Adj.

disruptive, at odds, conflicting

The DIVISIVE issue kept the brothers from talking to each other for years.;Dormant - Adj.

inactive, asleep, inoperative

A volcano that is not currently erupting is referred to as DORMANT.;Dubious - Adj.

doubtful, arguable, questionable

After he made some DUBIOUS claims about his past, many of Patrick's friends stopped trusting him.;Eclectic - Adj.

diverse, varied, wide-ranging

She prided herself on her ECLECTIC music taste, which ranged across many genres, styles, and eras.;Effective - Adj.

productive, efficient, compelling

The soccer coach gave the whole team a very EFFECTIVE pep talk!;Elation - Noun

extreme happiness, bliss, glee

His ELATION increased at the prospect of a visit from his best friend.;Eloquent - Adj.

articulate, expressive, outspoken

Many people must learn to be ELOQUENT on the right occasion in order to be successful.;Elusive - Adj.

hidden, mysterious, puzzling

The ELUSIVE neighborhood cat only appeared in our backyard when it felt like it.;Embargo - Noun

ban, restriction, barrier

The government put an EMBARGO on the release of confidential information.;Embezzle - Verb

steal money, misuse, thieve

The company's founder was eventually imprisoned for EMBEZZLING client funds.;Endeavor - Noun

attempt to achieve, effort,struggle

Climbing the mountain was a large ENDEAVOR, but we succeeded.;Enmity - Noun

hatred, animosity, bitterness

Eventually, the two rivals were able to lay aside their long-time ENMITY and work together.;Enthusiastic - Adj.

excited, eager, passionate

She was ENTHUSIASTIC when she heard that her family was taking a trip to Disney World.;Equity - Noun

fairness, honesty, integrity

The soccer referee always made decisions with total EQUITY.;Eradicate - Verb

destroy, remove, abolish

I spent all Saturday morning trying to ERADICATE the dandelions from the garden.;Erode - Verb

deteriorate, wear away, disintegrate

When water washes over the hill, the soil begins to ERODE.;Esoteric - Adj.

mysterious, obscure, cryptic

The ESOTERIC book on philosophy could only be understood by a few scholars.;Evict - Verb

throw out, remove, expel

We called the pest exterminators to EXPEL the cockroaches from the kitchen.;Exaggerated - Adj.

overstated, far-fetched, unrealistic

Joan produced an EXAGGERATED sigh.;Exclusive - Adj.

exclusionary, restricted, unshared

They dressed in tuxedos and ball gowns, then took a limousine to the EXCLUSIVE party.;Exhaustive - Adj.

thorough, complete, extensive

She only found her car keys after an EXHAUSTIVE search of the apartment.;Extol - Verb

acclaim, celebrate, applaud

 My mother constantly EXTOLS the benefits of drinking lots of water.;Extract - Verb

remove, draw out, extricate

Use thee tweezers to EXTRACT the splinter from the sole of your foot.;Exult - Verb

rejoice, celebrate, cheer

If the Seahawks win the Super Bowl this year, I plan to EXULT!;Fabricate - Verb

assemble, manufacture, construct

The untrustworthy prosecutor FABRICATED evidence in the trial.;Fallacy - Noun

falsehood, misconception, inconsistency

It used to be a popular FALLACY that the world was flat.;Falter - Verb

stumble, hesitate, waver

Jerrika's courage did not FALTER at the prospect of hardship.;Fastidious - Adj.

very careful, meticulous, critical

He picked out his socks for the day with FASTIDIOUS care.;Fathomable - Adj.

understandable, comprehensible, logical

The class on quantum mechanics, while interesting, was barely FATHOMABLE.;Feeble - Adj.

weak, ineffective, puny

Although FEEBLE, the puppy barked and growled at much larger dogs.;Fiasco - Noun

catastrophe, failure, disaster

Our attempt to make a spaghetti dinner was a complete FIASCO.;Figurative - Adj.

symbolic, allegorical, descriptive

Poems are often filled with FIGURATIVE language.;Flamboyant - Adj.

theatrical, showy, flashy

Her FLAMBOYANT personality made her an exciting person to be around.;Florid - Adj.

decorative, ornate, embellished

The birthday cake's decorations were a little FLORID for my taste.;Flourish - Verb

grow, prosper, multiply

The wild plants FLOURISH on the banks of the river.;Foresee - Verb

anticipate, predict, foretell

None of us could FORESEE the storm that would hit later that night.;Formidable - Adj.

daunting, difficult, intimidating

While Alex was a FORMIDABLE opponent, Hannah won the chess game.;Fortitude - Noun

boldness, bravery, strength of mind

She endured the long bout of strep throat with great FORTITUDE.;Frenetic - Adj.

frantic, frenzied, over-excited

There was a FRENETIC atmosphere in the shopping mall during the big sale.;Frivolous - Adj.

trivial, silly, foolish

The child enjoyed FRIVOLOUS pursuits like video games and movies.;Frugal - Adj.

economical, thrifty, careful

The family led a FRUGAL existence, spending little money on entertainment.;Frustrate - Verb

disappoint, discourage, dishearten

Ben and Keith knew how to FRUSTRATE me, when they told me they couldn't pick me up for the party.;Futile - Adj.

hopeless, pointless, unsuccessful

I made a FUTILE attempt to repair the broken vase.;Genuine - Adj.

authentic, real, actual

Each of these books is bound in GENUINE leather.;Gloat - Verb

exclaim, rejoice, celebrate

Karen GLOATED over her sister's volleyball victory.;Grapple - Verb

wrestle, fight, contend with

The two brothers loved to GRAPPLE on the trampoline in their backyard.;Grave - Adj.

serious, gloomy, sober

The old taxi driver had a GRAVE appearance.;Gregarious - Adj.

friendly, affable, sociable

The flock of birds was GREGARIOUS and social.;Guerrilla - Noun

mercenary, terrorist, rebel

At last, the capitol city fell to the GUERRILLA army.;Gullible - Adj.

trusting, foolish, naive

The spam emails convinced some GULLIBLE people to give away their money.;Haphazard - Adj.

unplanned, careless, random

The kitchen drawers contained a HAPHAZARD collection of spoons.;Heritage - Noun

background, tradition, culture

My mother went to the German festival to learn about her HERITAGE.;Hierarchy - Noun

ranking, chain of command, scale

There was a clear HIERARCHY among the children on the playground.;Hybrid - Noun

mixture, combination, composite

The final text is a HYBRID of the stage play and the film.;Hypocrisy - Noun

deceitfulness, deception, insincerity

The HYPOCRISY of the news reporter was shocking!;Hysterical - Adj.

very upset, agitated, frantic

The little girl grew HYSTERICAL at the sight of her mother driving away.;Immune - Adj.

invulnerable, resistant, unaffected

She took the flu shot, hoping to stay IMMUNE to illness that winter.;Impartial - Adj.

fair, unprejudiced, detached

The teacher remained an IMPARTIAL judge of the spelling bee.;Impertinent - Adj.

bold, arrogant, disrespectful

It is wise not to be IMPERTINENT to your parents.;Imprudent - Adj.

thoughtless, foolish, reckless

It would be IMPRUDENT to go outside without your winter coat.;Incentive - Noun

inducement, enticement, motivation

Without an INCENTIVE, many people in my town choose not to recycle.;Incite - Verb

encourage, provoke, agitate

Marcus INCITED his little brother to become upset.;Indescribable - Adj.

beyond words, unspeakable, sublime

Most of the prisoners of war suffered INDESCRIBABLE hardship.;Indigenous - Adj.

native, inborn, homegrown

The INDIGENOUS peoples of North America are still thriving and active communities.;Inept - Adj.

clumsy, unskilled, incompetent

I tried to carve a wooden duck, but I was quite INEPT.;Inference - Noun

conclusion, deduction, reasoning

From my mother's tone of voice, I made an INFERENCE that she was displeased with me.;Initial - Adj.

beginning, primary, basic

My INITIAL takeoff in the plane was a bit bumpy, but soon we flew smoothly.;Innate - Adj.

native, inborn, intrinsic

She had an INNATE gift for leadership.;Insolent - Adj.

disrespectful, discourteous, contemptuous

I was a little surprised that the security guard was so INSOLENT.;Instigate - Verb

provoke, incite, initiate

Although he talked loudly, he didn't actually INSTIGATE anything.;Intimidate - Verb

alarm, frighten, threaten

The large dog might INTIMIDATE you with his bark, but he is quite harmless.;Intricate - Adj.

complicated, elaborate, complex

She drew an INTRICATE design in the peel of the orange.;Introspection - Noun

self-analysis, contemplation, reflection

It is important to balance INTROSPECTION with socialization.;Inundate - Verb

drown, overwhelm, engulf

During the hurricane, the whole city was INUNDATED by the flood.;Irate - Adj.

very annoyed, angry, furious

I was IRATE when I discovered that my sister had eaten the last cookie!;Jeer - Verb

ridicule, scoff, sneer

The winning soccer team was gracious, and did not JEER at the losing players.;Jocular - Adj.

funny, cheerful, playful

His JOCULAR personality meant that he was invited to all of his friends' parties.;Jovial - Adj.

happy, lighthearted, cheerful

I haven't felt like my usual JOCULAR self for weeks.;Keen - Adj.

piercing, eager, intense

The scholar has a KEEN interest in both art and science.;Kinship - Noun

family, kindred, relation

I felt a KINSHIP with the quiet child.;Labyrinth - Noun

tangle, maze, complication

A LABYRINTH of sewer tunnels runs beneath the entire city.;Lackluster - Adj.

dull, lifeless, boring

My performance on the last piano recital was a bit LACKLUSTER.;Laconic - Adj.

brief, terse, to the point

His LACONIC way of speaking was not very detailed.;Lament - Verb

mourn, grieve, regret

My whole family LAMENTED the end of our favorite TV show.;Languid - Adj.

drooping, dull, lethargic

She felt weak and LANGUID after revering from the flu.;Lavish - Adj.

splendid, bountiful, generous

I prepared a LAVISH feast for our Hannukah celebration.;Lenient - Adj.

permissive, tolerant, forgiving

The teacher was LENIENT when her students misbehaved.;Lichen - Noun

moss, swamp

LICHEN covered the fallen logs in the forest.;Listless - Adj.

drowsy, dull, sleepy

The children woke up too early and had a LISTLESS manner throughout the day.;Lofty - Adj.

elevated, soaring, towering

The town square was shaded by LOFTY palm trees.;Maneuver - Verb

plan, scheme, navigate

I had to MANEUVER carefully to get out of the parking spot.;Mediocre - Adj.

average, commonplace, decent

Although I worked hard making it, the meal was merely MEDIOCRE.;Medley - Noun

assortment, combo, variety

The singer opened the concert with a MEDLEY of her most famous songs.;Meticulous - Adj.

accurate, detailed, perfectionistic

Harry was METICULOUS in his gardening and landscaping efforts.;Minuscule - Adj.

tiny, very small, small-scale

She found a MINISCULE kitten sleeping on her front porch.;Mosaic - Noun

collage, patchwork, montage

The art museum proudly displayed many Ancient Roman MOSAICS.;Motley - Adj.

mixed, varied, mingled

A MOTLEY crew of activists and protestors gathered outside the large bank downtown.;Mundane - Adj.

ordinary, everyday, commonplace

The details of everyday life are often quite MUNDANE.;Mutation - Noun

alteration, variation, change

The lopsided carrot was the result of a genetic MUTATION.;Naive - Adj.

childlike, innocent, trusting

The NAIVE young man allowed himself to be totally misled.;Nemesis - Noun

adversary, opponent, rival

Tara bravely stepped up to the plate, facing the pitcher, her longtime NEMESIS.;Neutral - Adj.

indifferent, noncommittal, undecided

The country of Switzerland remained NEUTRAL during World War II.;Nocturnal - Adj.

nightly, after dark, late

NOCTURNAL animals have the most energy at night.;Nostalgia - Noun

longing, remorse, sentimentality

Looking through the old scrapbooks, Gary felt a twinge of NOSTALGIA.;Novel - Adj.

new, original, unique

I had never been to a waterpark before, so the experience was quite NOVEL.;Nuance - Noun

slight difference, implication, distinction

It is important to include NUANCE in your arguments and theories.;Nuisance - Noun

annoyance, irritant, problem

Waiting in the long line at the fast food restaurant was a minor NUISANCE.;Obdurate - Adj.

stubborn, callous, inflexible

I quickly discovered that the mule I was riding could be quite OBDURATE.;Obedience - Noun

submissiveness, compliance, good behavior

Joan took her new puppy to OBEDIENCE classes.;Obsolete - Adj.

outdated, ancient, antique

Although it is only a few years old, my computer is already OBSOLETE.;Obstinate - Adj.

stubborn, determined, headstrong

Her daughter was OBSTINATE and refused to eat any more of the wilted spinach.;Omnivore - Noun

consumer, devourer, diner

OMNIVORES will eat anything that is placed in front of them!;Opaque - Adj.

cloudy, murky, hazy

The ocean air was OPAQUE and thick with morning fog.;Ornate - Adj.

fancy, elaborate, elegant

She placed the two ORNATE candlesticks in the middle of the table.;Pacify - Verb

appease, placate, smooth over

In an attempt to PACIFY the toddler, I offered her some fresh blueberries.;Palpate - Verb

touch, massage, examine

I always PALPATE an avocado to make sure it is ripe before buying it.;Paradox - Noun

contradiction, absurdity, inconsistency

In a PARADOX, she discovered that spending less time at her job allowed her to be a better employee.;Parasite - Noun

hanger-on, barnacle, leech

The PARASITE attached itself to the host organism.;Parole - Verb

liberate, pardon, release

After years in prison, he finally was released on PAROLE.;Perceptive - Adj.

alert, knowing, insightful

Her essay was PERCEPTIVE, demonstrating great knowledge and insight.;Perpetuate - Verb

maintain, preserve, bolster

The law PERPETUATED the interests of the very wealthy class.;Persevere - Verb

work hard, keep going, pursue

If you PERSEVERE through hardship, you will see success.;Pester - Verb

bother, harass, annoy

Sam loved to PESTER her older cousins.;Petite - Adj.

dainty, small, miniature

The PETITE pony trotted next to much larger horses.;Plateau - Noun

highland, plain, flat land

If we climb up to the PLATEAU, we can take a break.;Ponder - Verb

consider, contemplate, think about

The long email from her brother was certainly something to PONDER.;Pragmatic - Adj.

practical, matter-of-fact, realistic

As she grew older, Gabrielle made PRAGMATIC decisions.;Precaution - Noun

carefulness, safety measure, protection

Amir took PRECAUTIONS not to get locked out of the house again.;Preclude - Verb

cease, hinder, prevent

She spoke quickly, hoping to PRECLUDE any unnecessary questions.;Precocious - Adj.

developed, ahead of time, mature

Fatima was PRECOCIOUS and read books that were years above her grade level.;Prolific - Adj.

fruitful, productive, abundant

The PROLIFIC author published articles at least once a week.;Prose - Noun

essay, speech, written text

Carlo preferred reading PROSE to poetry.;Prosperous - Adj.

successful, thriving, wealthy

The PROSPEROUS businessman learned to be generous only in his old age.;Protagonist - Noun

hero, central figure, lead role

The PROTAGONIST of the film trilogy found her father at the end of the last movie.;Provoke - Verb

make angry, aggravate, irritate

Dasha PROVOKED the cat by dangling a long piece of string above her head.;Proximity - Noun

nearness, closeness, immediacy

The two birds, although in close PROXIMITY, largely ignored one another.;Pulverize - Verb

shatter, crush, break up

Harun accidentally PULVERIZED the eggs when he dropped the carton on the ground.;Quandary - Noun

difficulty, dilemma, predicament

Faced with two types of ice cream flavors, I was stuck in a QUANDARY.;Quarantine - Verb

isolate, seclude, separate

All of the sick children were QUARANTINED for the week so that the illness would not spread.;Query - Noun

question, inquiry, objection

My QUERIES were attended to quickly by a customer service representative.;Quota - Noun

allotment, allowance, portion

Each student had a QUOTA of the candy during their break.;Ravenous - Adj.

very hungry, greedy, desirous

Juanita felt RAVENOUS, so she ordered two cheeseburgers and a milkshake.;Recede - Verb

withdraw, diminish, decrease

The tide will gradually RECEDE throughout the day.;Rectify - Verb

correct, improve, revise

I will hand your paper back to you, so that you can RECTIFY your mistakes.;Renaissance - Noun

renewal, rebirth, awakening

During the Harlem RENAISSANCE, many great works of literature and art were born.;Repeal - Verb

abolish, cancel, dismantle

She believes that the government should REPEAL the harsh policy.;Replenish - Verb

refill, refresh, restock

Tam REPLENISHED her water bottle at the drinking fountain.;Repose - Noun

restfulness, inactivity, calm

Sometimes, it can be nice to spend a whole day in REPOSE.;Resilience - Noun

flexibility, stamina, endurance

The longer you practice yoga, the more your RESILIENCE will increase.;Resolute - Adj.

determined, strong-willed, persistent

Shira was RESOLUTE in her desire to get another puppy.;Respective - Adj.

particular, specific, individual

Each of the students sat down in their RESPECTIVE desks.;Restore - Verb

fix, make new, improve

He made a living by RESTORING old clocks.;Resurrect - Verb

revive, renew, revitalize

When an argument is over, it is not wise to RESURRECT the disagreement.;Revere - Verb

admire, adore, worship

Salama REVERES the pop star, and had hung posters of her all over the bedroom.;Rouse - Verb

wake up, stir, excite

ROUSE yourself! It's going to be a beautiful day!;Sacrifice - Verb

give up, surrender, lose

Children often don't realize the SACRIFICES their parents are making for them.;Sanctuary - Noun

holy place, shrine, altar

Arianne considered the grove of trees to be a SANCTUARY from the outside world.;Scarce - Adj.

insufficient, limited, sparse

We need to go to the store; the milk is getting SCARCE.;Sentimental - Adj.

emotional, affectionate, tender

I often feel SENTIMENTAL when I think about my last birthday party.;Serene - Adj.

calm, undisturbed, easygoing

The hawk was SERENE as it floated above the trees.;Sever - Verb

cut apart, detach, separate

Rosa accidentally SEVERED the paper doll in half by pulling too hard.;Silhouette - Noun

outline, shadow, shape

She looked up and saw a SILHOUETTE in the window.;Simulate - Verb

pretend, imitate, mimic

Some fake meat products SIMULATE the texture of the actual meat.;Sly - Adj.

clever, devious, smart

The SLY fox was able to evade the hunting dogs again.;Solitary - Adj.

alone, separate, remote

I prefer to be SOLITARY when I exercise.;Spectacle - Noun

performance, display, showy event

The circus brought its SPECTACLE from town to town.;Spectator - Noun

observer, onlooker, watcher

The SPECTATORS watched the large crane lift the house into the air.;Spectrum - Noun

range, array, scope

Human eyes are only capable of seeing a narrow SPECTRUM of light.;Spontaneous - Adj.

unplanned, impulsive, improvised

Sometimes SPONTANEOUS events work out better than planned ones.;Stealthy - Adj.

secretive, hidden, private

He made a STEALTHY movement toward the cookie jar.;Stereotype - noun

standard, example, pattern

It can be quite difficult for women to deal with STEREOTYPES in the workplace.;Stifle - Verb

smother, restrain, silence

Throughout the movie, I tried to STIFLE my coughs and sneezes.;Strategy - Noun

plan of action, approach, method

We started over, trying a different STRATEGY this time.;Subdue - Verb

control, overpower, defeat

The rivalry between the two classmates was eventually SUBDUED.;Sullen - Adj.

upset, gloomy, bad-tempered

It's hard to be SULLEN when the weather is so perfect.;Superfluous - Adj.

extra, unnecessary, expendable

He filled his shopping cart with SUPERFLUOUS items.;Symbiosis - Noun

cooperation, collaboration, working together

The small fish and the whale maintained a healthy SYMBIOSIS.;Tamper - Verb

interfere, alter, damage

Someone must have TAMPERED with the lock on the front door.;Technique - Noun

method, approach, tactic

The coach had a specific TECHNIQUE that she taught to all her players.;Temper - Noun

bad mood, anger, fury

Watch out--he has a pretty bad TEMPER!;Tempo - Noun

beat, rhythm, meter

During the music lessons, Marco learned how to play at a steady TEMPO.;Tentative - Adj.

unsettled, indefinite, uncertain

Our plans stayed TENTATIVE up until the day we left.;Terrestrial - Adj.

earthly, physical, worldly

She was interested in TERRESTRIAL things, so Aisha got a biology degree.;Timid - Adj.

shy, bashful, modest

Although we were TIMID at first, we quickly became best friends.;Tirade - Noun

abuse, outburst, rant

Ali was surprised by his supervisor's TIRADE.;Toxic - Adj.

poisonous, deadly, harmful

Be careful when using cleaning products, as the fumes are often TOXIC.;Tranquil - Adj.

quiet, peaceful, calm

At sunset, we gaze together at the TRANQUIL ocean.;Transitory - Adj.

temporary, momentary, fleeting

I had a TRANSITORY desire to move to another country.;Trivial - Adj.

unimportant, insignificant, meaningless

It is important not to waste energy on TRIVIAL things.;Tumultuous - Adj.

agitated, confused, disorderly

Their relationship was often TUMULTUOUS, so no one was shocked when it ended.;Tundra - Noun

prairie, flatland, open country

She was born in the TUNDRA, but has since moved to the mountains.;Unanimous - Adj.

in agreement, unified, uncontested

The board members' vote was UNANIMOUS.;Undermine - Verb

weaken, erode, sabotage

The earthquake UNDERMINED the strength of the building's foundation.;Unison - Noun

harmony, agreement, accord

In music class, we learn how to sing in UNISON.;Vacant - Adj.

empty, unoccupied, deserted

The VACANT lot was eventually sold to the highest bidder.;Vaccine - Noun

antibiotic, medicine, injection

You have to get VACCINES before traveling to another country.;Vertebrate - Noun

mammal, creature with a backbone, animal

It appears to be the skeleton of a small VERTEBRATE.;Vibrant - Adj.

alive, colorful, active

The butterfly quickly flapped its VIBRANT wings.;Vigilant - Adj.

anxious, attentive, watchful

I was VIGILANT all day, waiting for my package to arrive.;Vigor - Noun

power, energy, capability

The champion race horse was full of VIGOR and strength.;Vile - Adj.

offensive, horrible, appalling

The smell of the garbage outside is truly VILE.;Visible - Adj.

clear, conspicuous, apparent

Slowly, the lunar eclipse became VISIBLE.;Vocal - Adj.

verbal, expressed, opinionated

She was often VOCAL about her opinions on basketball.;Volatile - Adj.

explosive, unsettled, erratic

The VOLATILE volcano had exploded more than once without warning.;Wane - Verb

diminish, lessen, decrease

Gradually, the movie star's popularity WANED.;Wary - Adj.

careful, cautious, attentive

Ming was often WARY of strangers who approached her in public.;Witty - Adj.

funny, clever, amusing

She was so WITTY that she eventually became a comedian.;Woe - Noun

suffering, sorrow, sadness

The little girl felt great WOE at her cancelled plans.;Wrath - Noun

anger, fury, hatred

You would most likely feel WRATH if your brand new bike was stolen and destroyed.;Wretched - Adj.

terrible, very bad, distressed

The house was falling down; it was in WRETCHED condition.;Zeal - Noun

enthusiasm, devotion, intensity

His ZEAL for the volleyball team knew no end.
